Association Mining

Text Classification Using Association Rules,
Dependency Pruning and Hyperonymization
Yannis Haralambous and Philippe Lenca
Institut Mines Telecom, Telecom Bretagne, UMR CNRS 6285 Lab-STICC
Technopˆole Brest Iroise CS 83818, 29238 Brest Cedex 3, France
<surname>.<name>@telecom-bretagne.eu
Abstract. We present new methods for pruning and enhancing itemsets for text classification via association rule mining. Pruning methods
are based on dependency syntax and enhancing methods are based on
replacing words by their hyperonyms of various orders. We discuss the
impact of these methods, compared to pruning based on tfidf rank of
words.
Introduction
Automatic text classification is an important text mining task, due to the huge
number of text documents that we have to manage daily. Text classification has
a wide variety of applications such as Web document and email classification.
Indeed, most of the Web news services daily provide a large number of articles
making them impossible to be organized manually [14]. Automatic subject classification [9] and SPAM filtering [18] are two additional examples of the interest
of automatic text classification.
Automatic text classification can be defined as below. Given a set of documents such that each document is labeled with a class value, learn a model that
assigns a document with unknown class to one or more particular classes. This
can also be done by assigning a probability value to each class or by ranking the
classes.
A wide variety of classical machine learning techniques have been used for
text classification. Indeed, texts may be represented by word frequencies vectors,
and thus most of the quantitative data methods can be used directly on the
notorious “bag-of-words” model (cf. [27,3]).
Choosing a classifier is a multicriteria problem. In particular one has often
to make a trade-o↵ between accuracy and comprehensibility. In this paper, we
are interested in both criteria with a deeper interest in comprehensibility. We
are thus interested in rule-based approaches and especially in class association
rules algorithms. Several studies have already successfully considered association
rule-based approaches in text mining (e.g., [4], [29], [7], [25]). This framework is
suitable for considering some statistical characteristics (e.g., high-dimensionality,
sparsity. . . ) of the bag-of-words model where a document is represented as a set
of words with their associated frequency in the document.
In: P. Cellier, T. Charnois, A. Hotho, S. Matwin, M.-F. Moens, Y. Toussaint (Eds.): Proceedings of
DMNLP, Workshop at ECML/PKDD, Nancy, France, 2014.
Copyright 