Adversial Network

arXiv:2104.00955v1 [cs.MM] 2 Apr 2021
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MULTIMEDIA
1
An attention-based unsupervised adversarial model
for movie review spam detection
Yuan Gao, Maoguo Gong, Senior Member, IEEE, Yu Xie, and A. K. Qin, Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—With the prevalence of the Internet, online reviews
have become a valuable information resource for people. How
-
ever, the authenticity of online reviews remains a concern, and
deceptive reviews have become one of the most urgent network
security problems to be solved. Review spams will mislead users
into making suboptimal choices and inflict their trust in online
reviews. Most existing research manually extracted features and
labeled training samples, which are usually complicated and timeconsuming. This paper focuses primarily on a neglected emerging
domain - movie review, and develops a novel unsupervised spa
m
detection model with an attention mechanism. By extracting the
statistical features of reviews, it is revealed that users will express
their sentiments on different aspects of movies in reviews. An
attention mechanism is introduced in the review embedding, and
the conditional generative adversarial network is exploited to
learn users’ review style for different genres of movies. Th
e
proposed model is evaluated on movie reviews crawled from
Douban, a Chinese online community where people could express
their feelings about movies. The experimental results demonstrate
the superior performance of the proposed approach.
Index Terms—Movie reviews, Spam detection, Attention mechanism, Generative adversarial networks (GANs).
I. INTRODUCTION
WITH the emerging and developing of Web 2.0 that
emphasizes the participation of users, consumers increasingly depend on user-generated online reviews to make
purchase or investment decisions [1] [2] [3]. Online review
s
enable consumers to post reviews describing their experiences
with products and improve the ability of users to evaluate
unobservable product quality. However, these growing text
information is also full of various uncontrollable risk factors
that needs to be seriously treated and managed by websites
and platforms. A significant impediment to the usefulness of
reviews is the existence of review spam, which is designed to
give an unfair view of products and influence users’ perception
of them by inflating or damaging their reputation [4] [5]. Bot
h
over-rating and under-rating affect the sales performance of
products, and it is thus an important task to detect review
spam to protect the genuine interests of consumers and product
vendors.
In the past few years, there has been a growing interest in
review spam detection from both academia and industry [6]
[7]. A preliminary investigation is given in [8], where thre
e
Y. Gao, M. Gong and Y. Xie are with the School of Electronic Engineering,
Key Laboratory of Intelligent Perception and Image Understanding of Ministry
of Education, Xidian University, Xi’an, Shanxi Province 710071, China. (email: cn gaoyuan@foxmail.com; gong@ieee.org; sxlljcxy@gmail.com)
A. K. Qin is with the department of Computer Science and Software
Engineering, Swinburne University of Technology, Melbourne, Australia. (email: kqin@swin.edu.au)
types of review spam are identified, including untruthful re
-
views (reviews that maliciously promote or defame products),
reviews on brands but not products, and non-reviews (e.g.
advertisements). Since they have no manually labeled training
instances, untruthful review detection is performed by using
duplicate reviews as labeled deceptive data, and a regression
model is built on these samples. Most subsequent methods uti
-
lize supervised or semi-supervised models under its influence
by manually identifying review spam and extracting feature
s
[9] [10] [11]. However, it is incredibly time-consuming and
impractical for service providers to label previous spammers,
because a spammer will carefully craft a review that is just
like other innocent reviews [12], and even a small number
of incorrect annotations may bring poor results of the model
.
Moreover, feature identification and construction is also tricky
and complicated. Therefore, it is necessary to propose an
unsupervised way for review spam detection.
Most existing works on review spam detection focus on
product reviews. Compared with online product review platforms, online movie review platforms appear later and thus
receive little attention. This paper focuses primarily on movie
review spam detection. Top reviews and online word-of-mout
h
have a significant impact on the box office performance of
movies [13] [14], while the censorship is not strict and anyone
can post reviews and express their sentiments online. Under
the substantial commercial interest, more and more review
spammers make deceptive critics to increase the evaluation
of the target movie deliberately and discredit the competition movies arbitrarily, which will mislead users who plan
to watch movies and attract publishers to put funds into
review manipulation rather than filmmaking. For these reasons,
detecting movie review spams is essential and urgent for the
movie industry. Different from product reviews, movie reviews
have the following characteristic. Due to the subjectivity of
movie reviews, it is a challenging task to label them manuall
y
and therefore supervised methods are no longer applicable.
Furthermore, carefully crafted deceptive reviews usually look
perfectly normal, thus the artificially extracted features, such
as text similarity or length of review, are ineffective. Besides,
movie reviews usually entail unique movie plots or actors,
which increase the burden of spam detection. As a result, spa
m
detection of movie reviews is more challenging than that of
product reviews.
To address the aforementioned challenges, the paper proposes a novel movie review spam detection method using
an attention-based unsupervised model with conditional generative adversarial networks. Unlike the previous approaches
for review spam detection, the presented user-centric mode
l
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MULTIMEDIA 2
can achieve outstanding performance under the circumstance
of movie reviews. The characteristics of movie reviews are
discussed in depth, which naturally raise several assumptions
about deceptive reviews. Meanwhile, it is verified that the
user’s attention (e.g. plot, actors, visual effects) are always
distinct for different genres of movies. During the process
of mapping reviews into low-dimensional dense vectors, the
weights of feature words will increase, and what users are
interested in about a movie can be captured. Afterward,
the attention-driven conditional generative adversarial network
(adCGAN) is utilized to identify the specific condition-sample
pairs with movie elements (e.g. score, genres, region) being
conditions and review vectors being samples. Particularly, the
generator aims to misjudge the discriminator and generate
vectors that have similar distributions as real reviews with
certain conditions. The discriminator judges whether moviereview pairs are real, where conditions have been resampled,
thus correlations are extracted and deceptive reviews will
be identified. To the best of our knowledge, this paper is
the first to explore the potential of GANs for review spam
detection. Specifically, the main contributions of this paper
are as follows:
• The paper investigates the characteristics of movie review
spams and the differences between product and movie
review spams, then several novel techniques for deceptive
review detection are presented. Compared with traditional review spam detection algorithms, the approach
can effectively detect deceptive opinion spam under the
circumstance of movie reviews.
• The paper introduces an attention mechanism and a
user-centric model, which is preferred over the reviewcentric one as gathering behavioral evidence of users is
more effective than features of deceptive reviews. The
weights of words change adaptively according to users’
attention towards different aspects of movies in sentence
embedding, thus user preferences can be extracted and
encoded into the vector representations of reviews.
• It alleviates the problem of lacking labeled deceptive
reviews by introducing unmatched movie-review pairs as
fake samples, so that the conditional generative adversarial network is able to learn user’s language style from
previous reviews and under what conditions will users
write certain reviews.
• The paper explores several ways to identify spammed
movies and reviews, and our method is evaluated on
movie reviews crawled from Douban 1
, the most authoritative online movie rating and review website in China.
Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed algorithm outperforms other anomaly detection baselines.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section II briefly presents the related backgrounds and algorithms
about review spam detection, word embedding and generative adversarial networks. In Section III, clear and objective
definitions of the review spam and the problem of review
spam detection are given, then the details of the approach are
described. Section IV shows several ways to artificially detect
1https://movie.douban.com
deceptive reviews, as well as extensive experiments to validate
the effectiveness. Finally, we conclude with a discussion of
the proposed framework and summarize the future work in
Section V.
II. RELATED WORK
Recently, online review spam detection has been a popular
research topic [15] [16] [17]. Most existing review spam detection techniques are supervised or semi-supervised methods
with pre-defined features. As mentioned earlier, Jindal et al.
[8] identified three types of spam and applied logistic regression on manually labeled training examples. In particular,
they manually selected 35 features, including price and sales
rank of the product, percent of positive and negative words
in reviews, and the length of review titles, etc. Lim et al.
[18] investigated several characteristic behaviors of review
spammers and modeled these behaviors for spam detection.
They also proposed a scoring method to measure the degree
of spam for reviewers and applied it on Amazon. Rayana et
al. [19] proposed a holistic approach that utilized clues from
metadata (text, timestamp, rating) and relational data, then harnessed them collectively to spot suspicious users and reviews.
Yang et al. [20] presented a three-phase method to address
the problem of identifying spammer groups and individual
spammers. They utilized duplicate and near duplicate reviews
detection, reviewers interest similarity and individual spammer
behavior in spammer detection. Generally, the selected features
of models gradually changed from shallow (the length of
reviews) to deep (users’ interests) with the development of
deep learning techniques.
Word embedding, which is a distributed representation
method, is widely used in various natural language processing
(NLP) tasks, such as opinion analysis [21] [22] and sentiment
classification [23] [24]. Word embedding methods represent
words as continuous dense vectors in a low-dimensional
space, which capture lexical and semantic properties of words.
Mikolov et al. [25] proposed SkipGram, in which vectors are
obtained from the internal representations from neural network
models of text. It optimizes a neighborhood preserving likelihood objective using stochastic gradient descent with negative
sampling. To be specific, given a sequence of training words
s = (w1, w2, ..., w|s|), the SkipGram model seeks to maximize
the average log-probability of observing the context of a word
wi conditioned on its representation Φ(w). The Φ(w) is a
mapping function that maps a word to low-dimensional dense
vector, and its value is the weight from the input layer to the
hidden layer of the neural network. The number of neurons in
the input layer corresponds to the size of the vocabulary, and
that in the hidden layer is the embedding dimension.
max
Φ
1
|s|
X
|s|
i=1
X
−c≤j≤c,j6=0
logP r